On the real line, x^2 + 1 = 0 has no solution.
So we extend: a second axis for multiples of i = sqrt(-1).
Now the points i and -i solve z^2 + 1 = 0.
Think of complex numbers as points in a plane: Re and Im.
Each point is a vector z with length r and angle θ.
Polar form: z = r(cos θ + i sin θ) = r e^.
Multiplying by i rotates any vector by 90°.
Do it twice: i^2 sends 1 to -1.
Multiplying by a + bi is a rotate + scale.
It's a linear map: [a -b; b a] acting on the plane.
Angles are preserved — the map is conformal.
Example: z ↦ z^2 doubles angles on the unit circle.
Two different z map to the same z^2 (two-to-one).
Lift to 3D: height shows |z|, forming a cone.
Our z projects up to height |z|; θ stays in the base.
Complex numbers unify rotation and scaling across math.